.TH UGREP-INDEXER "1" "December 07, 2023" "ugrep-indexer 0.9.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
\fBugrep-indexer\fR -- file indexer to accelerate recursive searching
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ugrep-indexer [\fIPATH\fR] [\fB-0\fR...\fB9\fR] [\fB-c\fR|\fB-d\fR|\fB-f\fR] [\fB-I\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-S\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-X\fR] [\fB-z\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBugrep-indexer\fR utility recursively indexes files to accelerate ugrep
recursive searches with \fBugrep\fR option \fB--index\fR.
.PP
An optional \fIPATH\fR may be specified to the root of the directory tree to
index.  The default is to recursively index the working directory tree.
.PP
Indexes are incrementally updated unless option \fB-f\fR or \fB--force\fR is
specified.
.PP
When option \fB-I\fR or \fB--ignore-binary\fR is specified, binary files are
ignored and not indexed.  Searching with `ugrep --index' still searches binary
files unless ugrep option \fB-I\fR or \fB--ignore-binary\fR is specified also.
.PP
Archives and compressed files are incrementally indexed only when option
\fB-z\fR or \fB--decompress\fR is specified.  Otherwise, archives and
compressed files are indexed as binary files, or are ignored with option
\fB-I\fR or \fB--ignore-binary\fR.
.PP
To create an indexing log file, specify option \fB-v\fR or \fB--verbose\fR and
redirect standard output to a log file.  All messages are sent to standard
output.
.PP
The following options are available:
.TP
\fB\-0\fR, \fB\-1\fR, \fB\-2\fR, \fB\-3\fR, ..., \fB\-9\fR, \fB\-\-accuracy\fR=\fIDIGIT\fR
Specifies indexing accuracy.  A low accuracy reduces the indexing
storage overhead at the cost of a higher rate of false positive
pattern matches (more noise).  A high accuracy reduces the rate of
false positive regex pattern matches (less noise) at the cost of an
increased indexing storage overhead.  An accuracy between 3 and 7
is recommended.  The default accuracy is 5.
.TP
\fB\-.\fR, \fB\-\-hidden\fR
Index hidden files and directories.
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-check\fR
Recursively check and report indexes without reindexing files.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delete\fR
Recursively remove index files.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Force reindexing of files, even those that are already indexed.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\-binary\fR
Do not index binary files.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR, \fB\-\-silent\fR
Quiet mode: do not display indexing statistics.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-dereference\-files\fR
Follow symbolic links to files.  Symbolic links to directories are
never followed.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-no\-messages\fR
Silent mode: nonexistent and unreadable files are ignored, i.e.
their error messages and warnings are suppressed.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Produce verbose output.  Indexed files are indicated with an A for
archive, C for compressed, B for binary or I for ignored binary.
.TP
\fB\-X\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\-files\fR[=\fIFILE\fR]
Do not index files and directories matching the globs in a FILE
encountered during indexing.  The default FILE is `.gitignore'.
This option may be repeated to specify additional files.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-decompress\fR
Index the contents of compressed files and archives.  When used
with option \fB\-\-zmax\fR=\fINUM\fR, indexes the contents of compressed files
and archives stored within archives up to NUM levels deep.
Supported compression formats: gzip (.gz), compress (.Z), zip,
bzip2 (requires suffix .bz, .bz2, .bzip2, .tbz, .tbz2, .tb2, .tz2),
lzma and xz (requires suffix .lzma, .tlz, .xz, .txz),
lz4 (requires suffix .lz4),
zstd (requires suffix .zst, .zstd, .tzst),
brotli (requires suffix .br).
.TP
\fB\-\-zmax\fR=\fINUM\fR
When used with option \fB\-z\fR (\fB\-\-decompress\fR), indexes the contents of
compressed files and archives stored within archives by up to NUM
expansion levels deep.  The default \fB\-\-zmax\fR=1 only permits indexing
uncompressed files stored in cpio, pax, tar and zip archives;
compressed files and archives are detected as binary files and are
effectively ignored.  Specify \fB\-\-zmax\fR=2 to index compressed files
and archives stored in cpio, pax, tar and zip archives.  NUM may
range from 1 to 99 for up to 99 decompression and de\-archiving
steps.  Increasing NUM values gradually degrades performance.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The \fBugrep-indexer\fR utility exits with one of the following values:
.IP 0
Indexes are up to date.
.IP 1
Indexing check \fB-c\fR detected missing and outdated index files.
.SH EXAMPLES
Recursively and incrementally index all non-binary files showing progress:
.IP
$ ugrep-indexer -I -v
.PP
Recursively and incrementally index all non-binary files, including non-binary
files stored in archives and in compressed files, showing progress:
.IP
$ ugrep-indexer -z -I -v
.PP
Incrementally index all non-binary files, including archives and compressed
files, show progress, follow symbolic links to files (but not to directories),
but do not index files and directories matching the globs in .gitignore:
.IP
$ ugrep-indexer -z -I -v -S -X
.PP
Force re-indexing of all non-binary files, including archives and compressed
files, follow symbolic links to files (but not to directories), but do not
index files and directories matching the globs in .gitignore:
.IP
$ ugrep-indexer -f -z -I -v -S -X
.PP
Same, but decrease index file storage to a minimum by decreasing indexing
accuracy from 5 (default) to 0:
.IP
$ ugrep-indexer -f -0 -z -I -v -S -X
.PP
Increase search performance by increasing the indexing accuracy from 5
(default) to 7 at a cost of larger index files:
.IP
$ ugrep-indexer -f7zIvSX
.PP
Recursively delete all hidden ._UG#_Store index files to restore the directory
tree to non-indexed:
.IP
$ ugrep-indexer -d
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at:
.IP
https://github.com/Genivia/ugrep-indexer/issues
.PP
.SH LICENSE
\fBugrep\fR and \fBugrep-indexer\fR are released under the BSD\-3 license.  All
parts of the software have reasonable copyright terms permitting free
redistribution.  This includes the ability to reuse all or parts of the ugrep
and ugrep-indexer source tree.
